Fixing HIP-830 Review Findings (#837)
hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal: HIP/hip-830.md

---
hip: 830
title: Event Serialization With Round Number, EventDescriptors, and Multiple Other Parents.
author: Edward Wertz <edward@swirldslabs.com>
type: Standards Track
category: Core
needs-council-approval: Yes
status: Last Call
last-call-date-time: 2023-12-04T07:00:00Z
created: 2023-10-25
discussions-to: https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/discussions/827
updated: 2023-11-30
---

## Abstract

This HIP proposes several changes to the event serialization format.

1. Add the `roundBirth` to the metadata of new events. The `roundBirth` value is 1 + the latest round to have come

>    to consensus at the time the event was created. This values is used to look up the correct consensus

Reviewer: > This values is used to look up the correct consensus roster for validating the event's signature on other nodes.

The primary purpose of the birth round is for nodes to determine if it is ancient or not. Please put this explanation before this one about validating the event signature

   roster for validating the event's signature on other nodes.

> 2. Represent references to events as `EventDescriptors`. EventDescriptors are used by an event to link

Reviewer: Perhaps clearer terminology here would be something like,
"Combine existing data about each parent into a data structure (hash, creator, generation), and add the parent's birthRound to that data structure"

   to its self-parent and other parents.
3. Allow for multiple other parents.
4. In Gossip, reduce an event's unhashed metadata to just the event's signature.

## Motivation

> ### Add `roundBirth` to Event Metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add `birthRound` to Event Metadata
```

When we allow dynamic address books such that nodes can be added or removed from the consensus roster without restart,
we need a way to indicate which consensus roster was active when an event was created. A new consensus roster becomes

> active on a round boundary. Writing the `roundBirth` into an event's metadata will provide a way to look up the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
active on a round boundary. Writing the `birthRound` into an event's metadata will provide a way to look up the
```

effective consensus roster to validate the event's signature.

> The birth round number will also be used to determine when an event has become ancient and is no longer able to come to

Reviewer: I would switch the order of the statements about signature validation and ancient determination. Leemon made it clear that the ancient determination is the primary reason, so it should be said first.

consensus if it has not reached consensus yet.

> ### EventDescriptors as Event References

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### EventDescriptors as Parent Event References
```

An EventDescriptor is a 4-tuple:

1. `eventHash` - The hash of the event.
2. `creatorId` - The NodeId of the node that created the event.
3. `generation` - The generation of the event. (1 + the max of the event's parents' generations)

> 4. `roundBirth` - The latest round to reach consensus on the node when the event was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. `birthRound` - The latest round to reach consensus on the node when the event was created.
```

> The EventDescriptor is the minimal amount of information needed to identify an event by its hash, which node created
> it, and be able to determine when an event has become ancient. It is used in place of the event itself when the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EventDescriptor is the minimal amount of information needed to identify an event: its hash, which node created
it, and generation and birthRound be able to determine when an event has become ancient. It is used in place of the event itself when the
```

> payload of the event (the transactions) are not needed. This encapsulation of metadata will allow us to further
> improve gossip, validation, and consensus algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
payload of the event (the transactions) are not needed. This encapsulation of metadata simplifies the event structure.
```

---
hip: 830
title: Event Serialization With Round Number, EventDescriptors, and Multiple Other Parents.
author: Edward Wertz <edward@swirldslabs.com>
type: Standards Track
category: Core
needs-council-approval: Yes
status: Last Call
last-call-date-time: 2023-12-04T07:00:00Z
created: 2023-10-25
discussions-to: https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-improvement-proposal/discussions/827
updated: 2023-12-04
---

## Abstract

This HIP proposes several changes to the event serialization format.

1. Add the `birthRound` to the metadata of new events. The `birthRound` value is 1 + the latest round to have come
   to consensus at the time the event was created. This value is used to determine if the event is ancient or not.  
   It is also used to look up the correct consensus roster for validating the event's signature.
2. Represent references to parent events as `EventDescriptors`. EventDescriptors combine the existing data about each
   parent (hash, creator, generation) and the birthRound into a single data structure.
3. Allow for multiple other parents.

> 4. In Gossip, reduce an event's unhashed metadata to just the event's signature.

Reviewer: the "In Gossip" part here will be confusing for anyone not intimately familiar with the event structure in the code. I suggest:

```suggestion
4. Reduce `EventUnhashedData` to just the event's signature. This reduction eliminates two deprecated sequence number fields and the other event parent ID field which is already stored in in the other parent `EventDescriptor`.
```

## Motivation

### Add `birthRound` to Event Metadata

The `birthRound` of an event is 1+ the latest round to have come to consensus at the time the event was created.  
The `birthRound` is used to determine if an event is ancient or not and to look up the correct roster for
validating the event's signature.

### EventDescriptors as Parent Event References

An EventDescriptor is a 4-tuple:

1. `eventHash` - The hash of the event.
2. `creatorId` - The NodeId of the node that created the event.
3. `generation` - The generation of the event. (1 + the max of the event's parents' generations)
4. `birthRound` - 1 + the latest round to reach consensus on the node when the event was created.

The EventDescriptor is the minimal amount of information needed to identify an event: its hash, which node created

> it, and generation and birthRouns to determine when an event has become ancient. It is used in place of the event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it, and generation and birthRound to determine when an event has become ancient. It is used in place of the event
```

> it, and generation and birthRouns to determine when an event has become ancient. It is used in place of the event

Reviewer: I would remove the sentence `It is used in place of the event itself when the payload of the event (the transactions) are not needed.` The parent event was never contained in the event, so this only describes usage in code, which is not the focus of this HIP, and could confuse someone who is not familiar with the code.

itself when the payload of the event (the transactions) are not needed. This encapsulation of metadata simplifies
the event structure.

### Multiple Other Parents

An event's ability to come to consensus is based on whether witness events can strongly see the

> event through parent links. Allowing for multiple other parents will improve the ability of events to be

Reviewer: >An event's ability to come to consensus is based on whether witness events can strongly see the
event through parent links.

Will you please double check if this statement is entirely accurate? I believe strongly seeing comes into play when determining if an event is a witness and then deciding on if that witness if famous or not, but not directly in the reaching of consensus once the judges are determined.

strongly seen by witnessing events. This is expected to reduce the number of rounds needed for an event to come to
consensus.

### Signature As Unhashed Metadata  (Gossip Only)

Prior to the changes proposed in this HIP, the serialized unhashed data of Gossip Events included the following:

1. A sequence number from the self-parent node (unused field)
2. A sequence number form the other parent node (unused field)
3. The node id of the other parent's node.
4. The signature of the event.

The changes proposed in this HIP remove the unused sequence numbers and move the node id of the other parent's node
to the hashed portion of the data in the appropriate `EventDescriptor`. The only data that remains unhashed in
gossip events is the signature of the event, which cannot be hashed. Going forward, the implementation will no longer

> encapsulate unhashed metadata as an object in gossip events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
encapsulate unhashed metadata as an object in Gossip Events.
```
